This I know sucks, right?
You don't wanna have to do this.
This is the worst form of programming
where you have these long running state
transitions that you want to happen
over time and you have to wait for
something to happen and
then you can do the action.
It's much better to be kind of
pushed this information, right?
Let's erase this transaction and
just [SOUND] get it out of my sight.
And we're gonna erase
the set counter as well.
Disgusting, right?
And what we're gonna do instead is we're
gonna go to our counter contract, and
we're gonna add in one more item.
We're gonna add in one of the greatest
parts about the solidity network.
I personally think this is just
something that is just so dang exciting.
We'll go like this, event CounterInc,
and I'm gonna pass in, that, that is it.
We've just defined an event that
can happen from our contract that
simply has a counter or a singular
value that comes out of this event.
You can have three arguments in an event
and furthermore you can even index
some of those items if you would
like to filter on top of those.
Events are not only able to be listened
to in real time, you can actually go back
through the blockchain and see
a history of events that have happened.
In a sense, they're like cheap storage,
but they're harder to use.
And so they're very, very interesting.
To index that you could do something like,
index, I was gonna show you this, but
it's just a lot of extra work,
you can do that.
And you can then go like,
I only want to listen to events
that have a counter of equal to 5.
And then it will only be notified cuz
it can do a lot of live searching.
Learn about events they're fantastic,
but I just wanted to make sure everyone
understands that they exist cuz that's
the most important part about this,
is that you know that events exist and
that they're super useful.
And so now that we've done that, we need
to do one other thing which I forgot to do
last night while practicing and
it took me 20 minutes to figure
out what was going wrong.
I'm gonna go like, this emit
Counter Inc(counter, there we go.
At this point I want to make
sure everybody knows, hey,
this count has happened and
here's the new value.
There's something very important now,
which is what do we have to do?
Can someone tell me the steps in
here that we have to do to get
everything working for our website?
Does anyone remember
the steps we have to do?
Deploy it.
Updater and take down Webpack relaunch it,
right, kind of sucks.
It is what it is, but
we got to do those things.
I really wanted to make this part super
painful because I really want you to
be excited for part four.
So this is just me making it so
painful, you're like, my gosh,
just stop doing this already.
No, we're gonna keep on doing
this cuz it has to hurt.
It has to hurt to make
something super sweet.
I think what was it,
Mellencamp that said something like that?
I can't remember, anyways,
that joke fell flat.
Let it go.
Just let the joke go.
All right, so now that we have that,
let's go back and
let's relaunch our contract, right?
We do have one question.
>> Yeah, so
at a higher level what is an event then?
Is it something that's
persisted somewhere?
>> Yes, so every transaction will actually
have a log field associated with it in
which you can put data into it.
And so when that transaction happens,
you'll know about the log.
And not only that, but the provider
has a way to listen to the network as
it produces blocks and
read through the logs.
If you've told the provider, hey, I want
to be able to listen to these specific
events, even filtered on this specific
set of data, it will do all that for you.
It kind of feels like magic, and
in the end, you simply get out a callback.
If that makes sense.
Yeah, it's pretty much 200 IQ.
So we've just deployed a new
counter that now has our event.
So again, copy out the address,
go to the end.
Delete the address,
paste it in, go to Webpack,
take down Webpack, put it back up.
I know, I feel so good at this at
this point it's like a video game.
I'm pretty much cranking 90s and
Fortnight except for it's with Webpack and
updating, environment variables.
All right, now we said that out loud.
I'm going to refresh it and
notice that our increment is back at one.
But we haven't done anything
to the front end yet.
So let's go back to our code,
and let's go to index.ts.
So we need to change something, right?
I don't want to have to try to
call this at the right time.
I want something to
call me when it's time.
So let's do this.
Let's go counter,
which the name of our contract, on,
which is a convenience method for
us to be able to do that.
Now we need to provide it a filter.
In the JavaScript world obviously you
do something like this on counter Inc.
That's just not how it's gonna work here.
Instead, we have to do this.
We have to go counter,
filters, CounterInc.
Remember how ethers generates all
these magic functions for us?
It also generates magic filters for
us to listen for our events.
It's really actually kind
of a fantastic library.
So this name, CounterInc, is the name,
that's within our contract.
So it just generates it for us.
And so now that we've done that,
we can have a function,
which takes in the arguments
from our contract.
So I'll have count, right,
cuz that gets passed through.
And now I can take that,
and I can set counter, and
I wanna just pass them account
will jump up to counter.
We'll take an account, right now make
a little question mark in there and
I'll just do a little count,
or do that, fantastic, right?
We just made it all work
out fantastically, right?
And so now every single time this
gets called, we can then do whatever,
I don't know, I think people call it
top down render, whatever they do.
They can do some sort of fantastic
updating of all of your UI,
cuz you have all of your events in here.
And so you can hook that into all of your
state transformation, all the stuff you
need to do, but it's now abstracted
away from an action that a user takes.
We just simply listen for that event.
Which means that if we opened up
a second browser, theoretically,
we should be able to have both those
browsers update at the same time, right?
So we will try that as well.
But for now we've done this.
Let's go back to this.
Let's refresh it and
my goodness, what just happened?
Everything broke, right?
Again, [LAUGH] first try on this breaking,
it really intentionally did this.
All right, scroll to the top, counters
filters CounterInc is not a function.
But I thought I just told you that, right?
We just created this event.
Why isn't it not that?
Well remember, again, go back to our code.
What did we tell ethers was our interface?
We didn't tell it about this event.
So instead of doing this anymore,
let's delete that.
I just really wanted you to know that
you can just simply create an inline
interface, we don't need to do
an in line interface anymore.
Let's erase that, let's go to the tippity
top and let's import contract or
it was called counter, we'll call
counter from, go back to artifacts,
oopsies, that happens every now and then.
Import, contract or I call a counter from,
it's like Groundhog's Day.
Let's go to artifacts, contracts,
counter.sol, counter.json.
Now remember, it's French, there you go.
You have this nice counter right here and
now we have that file that I showed
you earlier inside of our front end,
that's why I had that TS
config resolved json modules.
And so that we can really get out this.
Now notice what's different about our ABI,
which stands for
Application Binary Interface, but
it doesn't really look very binary to me.
It has no indexes.
It has a name.
It has a type.
It has the name of our event and
its type event.
So really is gonna tell ethers everything
it needs to properly construct our
contract object.
So now it's going to add that
filters method to ethers, so
we'll be able to use that.
So now all we need to do is go back,
go down to where we initialized it and
just simply do counter.abi.
That will be the abi we need to pass in
and now this will always work as we make
updates to counter it will
pick up all those changes.
We don't need to manually specify it.
It is beautiful.
All right, I mean, I think it's beautiful.
Now the reason you use hardhat, hardhat
saves all this information out for you and
it saves it in such a way that it
works nicely with ethers, right,
which I think is pretty fantastic.
So now that we've done that, we should
be able to go back to our website, and
we should be able to see these changes.
So let's go back here.
Let's refresh.
All right, we're back.
We have it, fantastic.
Let's increment it.
It'll do the same thing.
Hey, do you wanna do this?
Yes, we wanna do this.
Now, my goodness, we're waiting.
Is it gonna happen?
Looks like we have the longer wait here.
I'm so excited because it's
gonna happen in 3, 2, 1, now.
I nailed it, but wait, what the heck it
didn't quite update where's the update,
there it is.
Our event got called,
look at that and now says number two.
That is pretty awesome, right?
Now we're actually really
interacting with Etherium and
we're actually getting data back out.
And, really we should be able
to go in here and go to 69.
69, I actually haven't done this yet.
We'll update it from a second browser tab,
make it happen.
It's gonna go off, it's gonna now do a
nice little event at the exact same time.
And theoretically we should be able to see
both of these go off at the same time cuz
they're both listening to the same
source which is our network.
It's no different than if you did it,
there you go we got one updated.
I don't, there it is, we got them both.
They both actually worked out.
For me this was really,
really cool because this is like
a whole new level of things you can do.
Your contract can have all these
state changes happening not even from
the person that's using it and
you can listen to only the ones you want.
Say you only wanted to listen to changes
that that individual person has made,
the person that's calling the count.
I could also add in message.sender,
which is just saying, hey,
here is the address of the person
who's called this function.
And then inside of here, I can simply put
address and since I want to filter on it,
index, and I can go,
ader, and there we go.
Now we've made events that I can
listen to that only I have done.
And so you can do all these really
cool tricky things that just make it
super nice.